blog: SLSA Build L3 for Eclipse Temurin (#2524)
adoptium/adoptium.net: content/blog/slsabuild3-temurin/index.md

---

> title: SLSA build level 3 compliance on Linux and macos for Eclipse Temurin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: SLSA build level 3 compliance on Linux and macOS for Eclipse Temurin
```
or maybe "Eclipse Temurin achieves hardened build compliance on Linux and macOS."

Author: Thanks - for some historic reason I thought `macos` was the correct way of styling it but you're right :-)

date: "2023-12-19T17:00:00+00:00"
author: sxa

> description: Eclipse Temurin by Adoptium is compliant with build level 3 of the SLSA 1.0 secure development framework on Linux.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Eclipse Temurin by Adoptium is compliant with build level 3 of the SLSA 1.0 secure development framework on Linux and macOS.
```

tags:
  - temurin
  - security
---

## Introduction

> [SLSA](https://slsa.dev) is a framework with individual levels that software

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Supply-chain Levels for Software Artifacts, or [SLSA](https://slsa.dev), is a framework with individual levels that software
```

producers can work towards to make their software more secure, and consumers

> can make decisions based on the software package’s security posture.  The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can use to make decisions based on the software package’s security posture.  The
```

Adoptium project has worked closely with the Eclipse Foundation security
team to work towards making the Eclipse Temurin compliant with the SLSA
specification's build requirements.

[At the end](https://adoptium.net/blog/2022/11/slsa2-temurin/)
[of 2022](https://newsroom.eclipse.org/eclipse-newsletter/2022/december/eclipse-temurin-slsa-level-two-compliant)

> we claimed compliance with level 2 of the SLSA v0.1 specification.  Earlier

Reviewer: ```suggestion
we achieved compliance with level 2 of the SLSA v0.1 specification.  Earlier
```

> this year version 1.0 was released and it was split into multiple "tracks",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this year SLSA version 1.0 was released and it was split into multiple "tracks",
```

of which the build track is the only one currently published.  If you're not
familiar with the changes, check out [this lightning
talk](https://youtu.be/uLXzyutZEmQ?si=XjD9H6uO_GEjJVBG) from one of my
colleagues.  We have been able to build on our work done previously to meet

> build level 3 for Linux and MacOS for Eclipse Temurin's build and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
build level 3 for Linux and macOS for Eclipse Temurin's build and
```

distribution.

> ## What have you done since declaring SLSA level 2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What have you done since declaring SLSA level 2?
```

> We have built on top of the work covered in the earlier blog to meet the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have built on top of the work covered in [the earlier blog](https://adoptium.net/blog/2022/11/slsa2-temurin/) to meet the
```

> requirements of SLSA build level 3. The additional requirements were as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
hardened builds requirements of [SLSA build level 3](https://slsa.dev/spec/v1.0/levels). The additional requirements were as
```

follows:

### Prevent runs from influencing one another, even within the same project

In order to achieve independence between build runs, we perform all of our
Linux builds in Docker containers. These containers are instantiated, the
build is run and the results saved, and then we shut down the container.
This way there can be no influencing from caching or from one run impacting
a subsequent one.

> We have implemented a comparable system on macos by using Orka from
> Macstadium which allows us to dynamically spin up virtual machines for each

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have implemented a comparable system on macOS by using
[MacStadium's Orka](https://www.macstadium.com/orka) which allows us to dynamically spin up virtual machines for each
```

build run to give us a comparable level of isolation.

> For other Operating Systems that we build on - Windows, AIX and Solaris - we

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For other operating systems that we build on - Windows, AIX and Solaris - we
```

are not currently set up to do something equivalent which is why we are not
claiming SLSA build level 3 for those builds.

### Verifying provenance artifacts

> We have introduced a build verification step which can take the SBoM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have introduced a build verification step which can take the Software Bill of Materials (SBOM)
```

produced as part of the build output and verify its contents as far as is
practical.  This will do some checks to ensure that the fields are valid and

> match expectations about how the product has been built.  This job is stored
> in https://github.com/adoptium/temurin-build/blob/master/tooling as
> release_download_test.sh which performs SHA and GPG checks as well as
> running some basic checks on the downloads.  It also calls
> validateSBOMcontent.sh to check the SBoM contents to make sure the
> dependencies, including compilers, listed in there match expectations. The
> SBoM contents now also includes the SHA256 checksums of all of the build
> artifacts.

Reviewer: I'd drop the paths and file names in a blog description. These should be in a code readme.

```suggestion
match expectations about how the product has been built.  This verification test
performs secure hash value and code signature checks as well as
running some basic checks on the downloads.  It also checks the SBOM contents
to make sure the list of build dependencies, including compilers, match expectations. The
SBOM contents now also includes the SHA256 secure hash checksums of all of the build
artifacts.
```

Author: My thinking for including it here was to point people at it in case they wanted to run it themselves (and it may also encourage interest and contributions from the community if we point directly at it)

> In addition to all these checks we also verify after each build that the
> build code has the features enabled that it should have. This is done using
> a custom AQA test job called "smoke tests" which use the tests in the build
> repository in the
> [buildAndPackage](https://github.com/adoptium/temurin-build/tree/master/test/functional/buildAndPackage)
> directory and test various aspects of the built JDK If these checks fail
> then these will be trapped early on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to all these checks we also verify after each build that the
built code has the features enabled that it should have. This is done using
a custom AQAvit test job called "smoke tests" to ensure various aspects of
the built JDK are correct. If these checks fail then the build will be trapped early on.
```

Author: I thought I'd added a comment on this previously, but maybe it got lost somewhere in the list :-)
I wanted to have some more details with that link in place to help encourage people to understand exactly what we're doing and hopefully encourage people to get involved/contribute into the project (And also so I have the reference to make it easy to find in the future!)

We expect that all of these checks will be enhanced over time, particularly

> as we add more details into the SBoM. Note that even now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We expect that all of these checks will be enhanced over time, particularly
as we add more details into the SBOM.

### Prevent secret material used to sign the provenance from being accessible to user-defined build steps

> The signing jobs that we use are all contained within the jenkins CI system
> which we use. These are independent of the build jobs and run as a
> subsequent step to avoid the credentials ever being available to the build
> jobs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The signing jobs that we use are all contained within our Jenkins CI system.
These are independent of the build jobs and run as a
subsequent step to avoid the credentials ever being available to the build
jobs.
```

## What's in the future?

At the moment SLSA build level 3 is the highest level available. We will
look to keep up to date as updates to the specification are made available.
We expect a "level 4" on the build track, and also other tracks to cover
source code.

> We are also continuing to work on our reproducible builds which gives an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are also continuing to work on our [reproducible builds](https://adoptium.net/blog/2023/09/Reproducible-Comparison-Builds/) which gives an
```
